# AutoML Techniques for Data Streams

Automated Machine Learning (AutoML) techniques ben- efitted from tremendous research progress recently. These developments and the continuous-growing demand for ma- chine learning experts led to the development of numerous AutoML tools. Industry applications of machine learning on streaming data become more popular due to the in- creasing adoption of real-time streaming in IoT, microser- vices architectures, web analytics, and other fields. How- ever, the AutoML tools assume that the entire training dataset is available upfront and that the underlying data distribution does not change over time. These assump- tions do not hold in a data-stream-mining setting where an unbounded stream of data cannot be stored and is likely to manifest concept drift. This research surveys the state- of-the-art open-source AutoML tools, applies them to real and synthetic streamed data, and measures how their per- formance changes over time. For comparative purposes, batch, batch incremental and instance incremental estima- tors are applied and compared. Moreover, a meta-learning technique for online algorithm selection based on meta- feature extraction is proposed and compared, while model replacement and continual AutoML techniques are dis- cussed. The results show that off-the-shelf AutoML tools can provide satisfactory results but in the presence of con- cept drift, detection or adaptation techniques have to be applied to maintain the predictive accuracy over time.
